---
title: Sleep
tags: sleep, productivity
---

# Sleep

As of June 4th, I was no longer a high school student. Now that I'm graduated, I can work full time at my current job (Software Engineering Intern at [LaunchDarkly](https://launchdarkly.com)). And, also as a consequence of graduating from high school, I can control my daily schedule!

## Initial experiment

Over the past few days, I've attempted a 24-hour based schedule where every day has the same template which would look something like this:

```
06:00 - Wake up
06:15 - Go out for jog
06:45 - Finish jog / Come home
06:50 - Shower + Brush teeth
07:00 - Dry hair + Prepare bag for work
07:10 - INSERT
08:00 - Leave for work
09:00 - Arrive at work
17:00 - Finish work + Head home
18:00 - Arrive home
18:15 - INSERT
22:00 - Go to sleep
```

The `INSERT` blocks are large blocks of time that I can actually fill up (with chores, projects, lecture/video watching, etc). On the days that this follows through, I was in a strong state of flow throughout the entire day and generally felt as though I was productive.

One of the primary goals for having this layout is that, whether I was on the train headed someplace or sitting at my desk at work, I did not want to have any conscious entropy about the idea of "What will I be doing next?". Basically, I didn't want to worry about a day ending up unproductive because I didn't plan out my proceeding steps. This was not a worry with the above template.

However, one of the big pitfalls/downsides of this approach is **sleep**. Specifically, there were two worrisome states:

1) Going to sleep at 10:00 PM when I feel as though as I could be awake **and** productive for couple more hours. Even worse is when I spend 1-2 hours effecitvely twiddling my thumbs waiting to even get tired.

2) Waking up at 6:00 AM and having a difficulty getting out of the bed. The question being why bother getting up this early when the only thing I _really_ need to do is go to work.

And, so, three ideas emerge

1) Getting 8 hours is a standard and healthy number for hours of sleep per night but, perhaps, that number doesn't need to be hit _every night_. Reviewing point #2 from above, I am likely to always hit a motivational wall every morning unless I am waking up naturally. Perhaps a 48 hour template where I get 8/6/8/6 hours of sleep per night would allow for me to obtain those additional hours of work in the evening.

2) Forget the morning jog, go for something around lunch time and wake up closer to when I need to leave the house.

3) Jog/exercise later in the day so, by the time I need to sleep, I'm feeling a lot more tired/ready to sleep

4) Polyphasic sleep - Bit more extreme than the 8/6/8/6 sleep schedule mentioned in #1 but how about something that involves napping for 4 hours in every 16 hour block

```
8:00 AM Wake up + Leave house
9:00 AM Arrive at work
5:00 PM Finish workday
6:00 PM Arrive at home
12:00 AM Nap
4:00 AM Wake up
8:00 AM Leave house
9:00 AM Arrive at work
5:00 PM Finish workday
6:00 PM Arrive at home
8:00 PM Nap
12:00 AM Wake up...

```

Or, maybe better, a popular polyphasic sleep schedule (can be discovered via word of mouth and/or Reddit)

## Next steps

I will likely be incorporating ideas 1, 2, and 3 (from the above list) and may explore 4 (polyphasic sleep schedule) some time later during the summer. Updated template to be recorded soon!
